史峥信息与电子工程学院电子科学与技术集成电路设计及其自动化个人简介:  现任浙江大学超大规模集成电路设计研究所副教授、副所长。2000年以来在浙江大学担任过工程师、副研究员等职。1996年至2000年在硅谷任Symmetry Design Systems公司设计工程师，1992年至1996年任西湖电子集团设计工程师。他目前的研究领域是纳米尺度集成电路设计，成品率增强技术和集成电路物理设计方法，他在这些领域已发表20余篇论文，主持完成多个国家级和企业科研项目，包括完成自主OPC系统以及多种纳米节点成品率测试芯片的成功量产运行。他分别于1990年和1992年获得清华大学电子工程学士、硕士学位，于2005年获得浙江大学电子工程博士学位。Mr. Zheng Shi is an associate professor and deputy director of the Institute of VLSI Design of Zhejiang University (ZJU) Hangzhou China. He has been serving in ZJU since 2000 beginning from positions of research engineer and associate researcher. Before joining ZJU he worked as a design engineer of Symmetry Design Systems in Palo Alto CA from 1996 to 2000 and an electronic engineer of West Lake Group in Hangzhou from 1992 to 1996.His current research interests include design of nanometer-scale Integrated Circuit (IC) yield enhancement technology and physical design methodology of IC. He has published more than 20 papers in these areas and as the team leader accomplished a number of leading R&D projects including the developments of a proprietary Optical Proximity Correction (OPC) system as well as various yield testing chips specifically designed for sub-100nm technology nodes all with successful adoptions in mass production lines.He received his B.S.E.E. degree and M.S.E.E. degree from Tsinghua University Beijing in 1990 and 1992 respectively and the Ph.D. degree from Zhejiang University in 2005.教学与课程:目前开课，面向ICCAD的软件技术基础（普通高校本科生） - Software Fundamentals for ICCAD for undergraduate students现代超大规模集成电路的CAD工具与流程拥有与众不同的风格，对其基本概念的了解是掌握集成电路设计方法学的关键。本课程重点关注面向ICCAD软件、基于UNIX/Linux平台的应用程序、脚本等基础知识和实践，同时培养学生的专业英语能力；未来集成电路设计工程师一定要精通！CAD tools and flow for modern VLSI design have a unique style; to understand the underlying fundamentals is essential for further mastery of IC design methodology. This course focuses on the basic knowledge and practice for using utilities and scripts on UNIX/Linux platforms aiming to their applications in ICCAD software. Students will also be trained to improve on technical English. A must learn course for future IC design engineers!ICCAD流程（研究生） - ICCAD Flow for graduate students集成电路方向的研究生（特别是设计专业方向），应该对以集成电路的计算机辅助设计为主干的设计方法有广泛的认识和深入的理解。学习和集成电路CAD关系密切的硬件基础知识和软件编程环境、学习了解自动设计流程的基本原理和步骤、并练习完成示例算法和示例CPU设计任务，这些均有助于达成上述教学目的。Graduate students in IC field (especially those in IC Design direction) should have broad knowledge and deep understanding on IC Design Methodology based on computer-aided approaches. Studying the hardware fundamentals and software environment related to ICCAD learning the principles and implementation steps of the automatic design flow and practicing on exemplary algorithms and CPU design tasks are all helpful for students to achieve such a goal.奖励荣誉:任职后陆续获得教育部科技进步奖一等奖1项、国家科技进步二等奖1项、北京市科学技术奖二等奖1项、上海市科学技术奖二等奖1项等奖项。实验室介绍:浙江大学超大规模集成电路设计研究所