许奇经济学院应用经济学· 实证资产定价· 金融计量· 国际金融个人简介:许奇，浙江大学百人计划研究员，浙江大学经济学院金融学系助理教授，浙江大学金融研究院研究员。于2016获得英国华威大学金融学博士学位，同年入职浙江大学。主要研究领域包括实证资产定价，金融计量，和国际金融。研究发表在Journal of Empirical Finance上，并在European Finance Assocation Society of Financial Econometrics Financial Management Assocation Econometric Society等国际会议上宣讲过论文。作为主要参与者参与一项国家自然科学基金面上项目。目前教授固定收益证券分析与模型（本科），金融计量模型（本科），资产定价理论与实证（博士）课程。教学与课程:目前教授以下课程：固定收益证券分析与模型（本科生，秋冬）金融计量模型（本科生，夏）资产定价理论与实证（博士生，夏）研究与成果:论文发表："The Economic Value of Volatility Timing with Realized Jumps" Journal of Empirical Finance 34 (2015) 45-59 (with I. Nolte).工作论文："A Least Square Realized Covariation Estimation under MMS Noise and Non-synchornicty" (with I.Nolte M.Vasios V.Voev)."Oil Volatility Risk and Carry Trade Returns" (with X. Luo)."Prospect Theory and the Cross-Section of Currency Returns" (with M. Taylor R. Kozhan).工作研究项目:项目：国家自然科学基金面上项目“波动率衍生品市场的理论与实证研究”: 主要参与者学术交流（讲座报告）:在以下国际会议/研讨会上宣讲论文(或被接收宣讲)2018: Financial Management Association (FMA) International Annual Conference Nankai University China Meeting of Econometric Society (CMES) Financial Econometrics and New Finance Conference (FENF)2017: Chinese Finance Annual Meeting (CFAM) European Finance Association Annual Meeting (EFA) AFR Summer Institute of Economics and Finance China Meeting of Econometric Society (CMES) Asian Meeting of Econometric Society(AMES)2016: Southern University of Science and Technology Financial Management Association International (FMA) Annual Conferene European Economic Association(EEA) Annual Meeting Pre-Conference for Junior Researchers of Society of Financial Econometrics (SoFiE) Annual Meeting University of Exeter Bank of England.2015: University of Glasgow University of Liverpool Bangor University MoneyMacro and Finance (MMF) ConferenceWBS Finance Workshop University of Bristol.2014: Financial Management Association International (FMA) Annual Conference National University of Singapore-Risk Management Institute (NUS-RMI) Annual Risk Management Conference International Association for Applied Econometrics (IAAE) Annual Conference Konstanz-Lancaster (KoLa)Workshop on Finance and Econometrics Soceity of Financial Econometrics and Cambridge-INET Conference(SoFiE-INET) on "Skewness Heavy Tails Market Crashes and Dynamics".2013: Econometric Society European Meeting (ESEM) International Finance and Banking Society (IFABS) Annual Conference WBS Finance Workshop.