赵文文先进技术研究院航空宇航科学与技术· 高超声速空气动力学· 稀薄气体动力学· 非平衡空气动力学个人简介:赵文文，博士，籍贯湖北宜昌，2009年毕业于西北工业大学动力与能源学院，获得飞行器动力工程工学学士学位；2014年12月毕业于浙江大学航空航天学院，获得流体力学博士学位，师从陈伟芳教授；2013-2014年获得国家留学基金委资助，赴美国圣路易斯华盛顿大学应用科学与工程学院进行博士联合培养，师从Ramesh K. Agarwal教授。2015年4月进入浙江大学先进技术研究院工作，成为陈伟芳教授研究团队主要骨干。教学与课程:《稀薄气体动力学》《高超声速空气动力学》科研:博士期间与参加工作以来，紧密围绕国家重大战略需求，重点针对临近空间稀薄气体动力学矩方法理论及高超声速空气动力学数值计算方法开展了相关研究工作，并取得了一系列富有新意的研究成果。研究工作获得国家自然科学基金青年基金、中央高校基本业务费专项资金青年项目等基金资助。研究与成果:以第一作者身份在《Microfluidics and Nanofluidics》、《Communications in Computational Physics》、《Aerospace Science and Technology》、《Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets》、《Vacuum》等国际期刊上发表SCI/EI检索论文十余篇，获得《高超声速空气动力学气动特性分析软件》等软件著作权4项。学术兼职：中国力学学会会员、美国航空航天学会（American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics，AIAA）高级会员、美国物理学会会员〔American Physical Society APS〕会员。学术交流（讲座报告）:美国安柏瑞德航空航天大学/AESCTE杂志主编John Ekaterinaris 教授学术报告的通知题  目Ⅰ：How to prepare your manuscript for Aerospace Science and Technology (AESCTE) and other Elsevier Journals in order to achieve a quick and successful review时  间：2018年5月17日（周四）9:00-10:30报告人：John Ekaterinaris 教授 美国安柏瑞德航空航天大学/AESCTE杂志主编地  点：玉泉校区教5-333室报告摘要:   Aerospace Science and Technology (AESCTE) is a high quality Elsevier journal rating among the first in the field of Aerospace Engineering. In the last few years the quality of the published articles the impact factor of AESCTE and as a result both the number of submissions and the number of rejections have been increased. The goal of this presentation is to provide background information on academic publishing in AESCTE. It outlines the various important steps that as an Author you need to follow in preparing your manuscript so that it becomes appealing to editors and reviewers for going fast through the review process and finally achieving a successful publication in AESCTE. It also aims to provide advice about how to properly structure your article in order to avoid as possible editorial comments that potentially delay or put serious obstacles to the publication of your work. From the title and keywords right through to the conclusion and references all the essential criteria are covered to make sure it can be a success. It goes without saying that the most important aspects for successful publication which will make your work to distinguish among others and will accelerate the review and acceptance are the innovative ideas it contains and the scientific value of your work. These elements will also lead to larger number of citations that will eventually befit you in the academic environment and in turn the AESCTE journal because they will contribute to further increase of the impact factor.  题  目Ⅱ：Improved Shock capturing with high-order discontinuous Galerkin discretizations using adaptive mesh refinement and sub-cell discontinuity resolution时  间：2018年5月17日（周四）10:30-12:00报告人：John Ekaterinaris 教授 美国安柏瑞德航空航天大学/AESCTE杂志主编地  点：玉泉校区教5-333室报告摘要:   Discontinuous Galerkin (DG) discretizations possess features making them attractive for high-resolution computations in three-dimensional flows that include strong discontinuities and embedded complex flow features. Key elements which could make the DG method more suitable for computations of such time-dependent flows in complex domains is use of adaptive mesh refinement (AMR) and application of limiting procedures that ensure sharp and accurate capturing of discontinuities for unstructured mixed-type meshes. A unified limiting approach suitable for increased order of expansion and adaptive mesh refinement is introduced in the context of it h/p-adaptivity in order to locally enhance resolution for three-dimensional flow simulations that include discontinuities and embedded complex flow features. Furthermore a nonlinear filter is employed in the finite element context of discontinuous DG discretizations to achieve low dissipative well-balanced high-order discontinuity capturing. It is shown that for higher order discretizations discontinuity resolution within the cell is achieved and the design order of accuracy is preserved. The filter is applied for a number of standard inviscid flow test problems including strong shocks interactions to demonstrate that the proposed dissipative mechanism for DG discretizations yields superior results compared to the results obtained with the TVB limiter and higher-order hierarchical limiting. The proposed approach is suitable for p–adaptivity in order to locally enhance resolution of three-dimensional flow simulations that 报告人简介:   Dr. John A. Ekaterinaris received his B.S. in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in Greece in Oct. 1977. Started graduate studies in the US in 1981 and revived his M.Sc. in Mechanical Engineering in 1982 and his Ph.D. from the School of Aerospace Engineering in 1987 both at the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta GA.   Between 1987 – 1995 worked at NASA–Ames Research Center at Moffett Field CA and at the same time he was faculty at the Naval Postgraduate Scholl at Monterey CA. He took a Senior Research Scientist position at RISOE National Laboratory in Denmark between 1995 – 1997 where he worked on wind energy he returned to CA and worked at Nielsen Engineering and Research (NEAR) between 1997 – 2000.   In Oct. 2000 he took the Research Director position at FORTH/IACM where he remained until 2005. In Sept. 2005 he joined the faculty of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Patras. He joined the faculty of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in August 2012 where he is currently teaching and performing research.   His interests are computational mechanics (including aerodynamics magnetogasdynamics electromagnetics aeroacoustics flow transition turbulence research and flow structure interaction) high order methods for PDEs multiscale phenomena stochastic PDE’s and biomechanics and more recently machine learning and uncertainty quantifcation. He is author of over 60 journal papers. He has been member American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) where he served as member at the Flight Mechanics and Fluid Dynamics Technical Committees and AIAA associate fellow of since 1985.   He performed funded research in the US and in Europe with the European Space Agency (ESA) and through the EU framework programs. He also performed funded research thought the offices of AFOSR and ARO. He is associate editor of the Journal Progress in Aerospace Science (JPAS) and editor in chief of the Journal Aerospace Science and Technology (AESCTE).发表论文:1 Zhao W Chen W Liu H Agarwal R. Computation of 1-D shock structure in a gas in rotational non-equilibrium using a new set of simplified Burnett equations. Vacuum 2014. 2 Zhao W Chen W Agarwal R. Formulation of a New Set of Simplified Conventional Burnett Equations for Computation of Rarefied Hypersonic Flows. Journal of Aerospace Science and Technology 2014;38;64-75. 3 Zhao W Chen W. Non-equilibrium Shock Structure Calculation with High-order Modified Navier–Stokes Equations. International Journal of Nonlinear Sciences and Numerical Simulation. 2013;14:493-500. 4 Zhao W Chen W Agarwal R. Computation of Rarefied Hypersonic Flows Using Modified Form of Conventional Burnett Equations. Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets 2015;52(03): 789-803. 5 Jiang Z Chen W Zhao W. Numerical analysis of the micro-Couette flow using a non-Newton-Fourier model with enhanced wall boundary conditionsJ. Microfluidics and Nanofluidics. 2018 22(101). 6 Zhao W Chen W. Shao C Shi Y. The research on the influence of hypersonic blunt cone pitching dynamic derivatives calculation. Journal of National University of Defense Technology. 2013 (1):43-47. (in Chinese) 7 Zhao W Chen W. Shao C Jiang T. The research on the influence of hypersonic blunt cone pitching dynamic derivatives considering different physical effects. ACTA Aerodynamica Sinica. 2013 31(4): 442-448. (in Chinese) 8 Zhao W Jiang T Chen W. Numerical study of aerodynamic heating and shock detached distance for sharp leading edge. Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics. 2013 (5):733~737. (in Chinese) 9 Chen W Zhao W Jiang Z. A review of moment equations for rarefied gas dynamics. Physics of Gases. 2016 1(5): 9-24. (in Chinese) 10 Zhao W Chen W Agarwal R. Formulation of a New Set of Simplified Conventional Burnett Equations for Computation of Rarefied Hypersonic Flows. 7th AIAA Theoretical Fluid Mechanics Conference AIAA Aviation and Aeronautics Forum and Exposition 2014 June 2014 Atlanta 11Zhao W Chen W Agarwal R. Computation of 1-D Shock Structure in a Gas in Rotational Non-Equilibrium Using a New Set of Simplified Burnett Equations 29th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 2014 Xi’an 12 Zhao W Chen W Liu H Agarwal R. 3D Linearized Stability Analysis of Various Forms of Burnett Equations 29th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 2014 Xi’an 13 Zhao W Chen W. Shock structure calculation with high-order modified Navier–Stokes Equations. 4th Sino-Italian Conference on Space Aerothermodynamics and Hot Structures. November 2012 Capua Italy 14 Zhao W Shao C. The computation and influent analysis of blunt cone pitching dynamic derivatives. 16th Hypersonic Aerodynamics and Aerodynamic Heating Academic Conference September 2011 Sanya China. (in Chinese)15 Xia C Zhao W Chen W. Parametric modeling and automatic grid generation of HTV-2 type lifting body. 14th Conference on Shock wave and Shock Tube Research. July 2012 Hangzhou China. (in Chinese)16 Wang L Zhao W Xia C Chen W. The numerical simulation of different turbulent model in compression corner flow.  The forum of near-space vehicle technology. July 2011 Beijing China. (in Chinese) 17 Zhao W Chen W Agarwal R. Computation of hypersonic flow Using a New Set of Simplified conventional Burnett Equations. AIAA Science and Technology Forum and Exposition January 2015 Kissimmee U.S.A.. 18 Zhao W Liu H Chen W Agarwal R. Entropy Production Analysis of the Burnett Equations Based on the Classical Thermodynamic Theory using Gibbs Equations. 54th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting AIAA Science and Technology Forum and Exposition 2016 January 2016 San Diego U.S.A.. 19 Zhao W Jiang Z Chen W Computation of 1-D shock structure using nonlinear coupled constitutive relations and generalized hydrodynamic equations 30th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 10-15 2016 Victoria BC Canada. 20 Zhao W Jiang Z Chen W Modified Nonlinear Coupled Constitutive Relations for Rarefied Gas Flows The 10th International Conference on Computational Physics January 16-20 2017 Macao China. 21 Liu H Zhao W Chen W Burnett Simulations of Micro-Couette Flow using Modified Slip Boundary Conditions 30th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 10-15 2016 Victoria BC Canada. 22 Jiang Z Zhao W Chen W A three-dimensional finite volume method for conservation laws in conjunction with modified nonlinear coupled constitutive relations 30th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 10-15 2016 Victoria BC Canada. 23 Shao C Zhao W Chen W One‐Dimensional Nonequilibrium Shock Wave Structure Analysis 30th International Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics July 10-15 2016 Victoria BC Canada. 24 Jiang Z Chen W Zhao W Numerical simulation of three-dimensional non-equilibrium flows using a second-order nonlinear model 21st AIAA International Space Planes and Hypersonic Technologies Conference March 6-9 2017 Xiamen China.