黄敬华计算机科学与技术学院设计学· 人类工效学· 设计认知· 人体生物节律· 情感设计个人简介: 黄敬华，女，朝鲜族，哈尔滨人。浙江大学国际设计研究院副教授，硕士生导师。2006年毕业于日本国立千叶大学工业设计系，获博士学位。2006年起在日本东京都精神医学综合研究所脑功能研究部门及日本国立千叶大学工业设计系任职研究员工作。2012年进入浙江大学国际设计研究院执教，主要从事人类工效学、设计认知、人体生物节律、情感设计、服务设计等研究。在所研究相关领域重要期刊和会议发表学术论文30余篇。教学与课程:本科生课程《人机工程与创新设计》本科生课程《服务创新设计》本科生课程《整合与创新设计》研究生课程《人类工效学》研究生课程《感性设计与工程》科研:科研项目：仿真电子蜡烛研发，主持。创造设想2年后20多岁年轻人所崇尚的视觉交流平台，主持。健康与智慧理念在灯具与照明系统的呈现形式研究，主持 。  医用高效低噪音吸烟机，主持。亚洲校园计划-植物与环境创新项目，主要参与人。创意设计柔性众包的动态机理研究 ，主要参与人。 研究与成果:1.Evaluation study on B2C online shop webpage based on eye-tracking. Jinghua Huang Ming An Shenhao Wang Linnan Yi Lei Wang Yi Guo. The 12th International Congress of Physiological Anthropology Makuhari.20152.Recognition of human emotions from cerebral blood flow changes in the frontal region: a study with event-related near-infrared spectroscopy. Yoko Hoshi Jinghua Huang Shunji Kohri Yoshinobu Iguchi Masayuki Naya Takahiro Okamoto Shuji Ono. Journal of Neuroimaging.20113.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on human cognitive function. Ming AN Jinghua Huang Yoshihiro ShimomuraTetsuo Katsuura.Journal of Physiological Anthropology.20094.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on human autonomic nervous system. Ming AN Jinghua Huang Yoshihiro ShimomuraTetsuo Katsuura. Journal of the Human-Environmental System.20095.Non-visual biological effect of monochromatic light on human circadian rhythm of physiological and psychological parameters. Jinghua Huang Ming An Yoshihiro Shmomura Tetsuo Katsuura.The 3rd International Association of Societies of Design Research，Seoul.20096.The neural mechanisms responsible for pleasant and unpleasant emotions:  the role of the prefrontal and the lateral prefrontal cortex. Yoko Hoshi Jinghua Huang Shunji Kohri Yoshinobu Iguchi. The 48th Annual Conference of Japanese Society for Medical and Biological Engineering.20097.The comparison of physiological responses between mist sauna bathing and tub bathing. Jinghua Huang Kentarou Oda Yumi Hirasawa Yoshihiro Shmomura Tetsuo Katsuura. The 60th Meeting of Japan Society of Physiological Anthropology.20098.The effects of sound environment on human physiological response and performance during driving. Qi Lu Jinghua Huang Yoshihiro Shimomura and Tetsuo Katsuura. The 38th Annual Meeting of the Kanto-Branch Japan Ergonomics Society.20099.Proposal and evaluation of refrigerator shelf designed for ease of taking food out. Kentaro ODA Jinghua HUANG Atsuko FUNAYAMA Yuko AKAGI Yoshihiro SHIMOMURA and Tetsuo KATSUURA. The 38th Annual Meeting of the Kanto-Branch Japan Ergonomics Society.200810.Development of mind/brain-human interface by using NIRS. Yoko Hoshi Jinghua Huang Shunji Kohri Yoshinobu Iguchi Masayuki Naya Takahiro Okamoto Shuji Ono. The 32th Annual Meeting of the Japan Society for CNS Computed Imaging.200911.Study on the prefrontal activity related pleasant and unpleasant emotions. Yoko Hoshi Jinghua Huang Shunji Kohri Yoshinobu Iguchi Masayuki Naya Takahiro Okamoto Shuji Ono. The 38th Meeting of Japanese Society of Clinical Neurophysiology.200812.The role of the prefrontal cortex in pleasant and unpleasant emotions: a study with event-related near-infrared spectroscopy. Yoko Hoshi Jinghua Huang. Brain & Development.200813.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on event-related potential P300 and autonomic response. Ming An Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Jinghua Huang. The 59th Meeting of Japan Society of Physiological Anthropology.200814.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on human cognitive function and prefrontal activation measured with EEG and NIRO-300. Ming An Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Jinghua Huang. The 59th Meeting of Japan Society of Physiological  Anthropology.200815.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on human cognitive function and subjective evaluation. Ming An Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Jinghua Huang. The 9th International Congress of Physiological AnthropologyDelft.200816.Time-of-day-dependent effects of monochromatic light exposure on event-related potential P300 and autonomic response. Ming AN Jinghua Huang Yoshihiro Shimomura Tetsuo Katsuura. The 59thMeeting of Japan Society of Physiological Anthropology.200817.Circadian Rhythm of Morning-Type and Evening-Type Subjects in Core Body Temperature and ERP in Response to Sound Stimuli. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. The 9th International Congress of Physiological Anthropology，47.Delft.200818.Comparison of the core interthreshold zones between monozygous and dizygous twins. Naoshi Kakitsuba Jinghua Huang Lu Shi Tetsuo Katsuura and masayuki Harada. Japan Journal of Physiological Anthropology.200719.Near-infrared spectroscopy study on prefrontal activity associated with emotions in an event-related design. Jinghua Huang Yoko Hoshi Masayuki Naya Shuji Ono Takahiro Okamoto. The 13th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping，Chicago.200720.Activation hypofrontality in Schizophrenia. Yoko Hoshi Masahito Nemoto Chie Sato Yoshinobu Iguchi Jinghua Huang Masanari Itokawa. The 13th Annual Meeting of the Japan Society for the Monitoring of Cerebral Metabolism.200721.Near-infrared spectroscopy study on prefrontal activity associated with pleasant and unpleasant pictures in an event-related design. Jinghua Huang Yoko Hoshi Masayuki Naya Shuji Ono Takahiro Okamoto.The 9th Meeting of Japan Human Brain Mapping Society.200722.Neural and hemodynamic responses and their baseline activities: a study of hypercapnic challenge in rats. Nemoto M Hoshi Y Sato C Iguchi Y Huang J. The 84th Annual Meeting of the Physiological Society of Japan.200723.Three dependence effects plaguing the neurovascular coupling phenomenon: signal source active paradigm and cerebral baseline activity. Nemoto M Hoshi Y Sato C Iguchi Y Huang J. The 9th Meeting of Japan Human Brain Mapping Society. 200724.Changes of ERP Response to Sound Stimuli of Varying Frequency in Morning-Type and Evening-Type Subjects. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. Journal of Physiological Anthropology.200625.Diurnal Changes in Salivary Melatonin Concentrations and ERP in Response to Sound Stimuli in Morning-Type and Evening-Type Subjects. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. Journal of the Human-Environmental System.200626.Physiological measurements for evaluation of Human-Environment System. Tetsuo Katsuura Jinghua Huang Xinqin Jin Xinxin Liu Yoshihiro Shmomura and Koichi Iwanaga. Journal of the Human-Environmental System.200627.Physiological measurements for evaluation of Human-Environment System. Tetsuo Katsuura Jinghua Huang Xinqin Jin Xinxin Liu Yoshihiro Shmomura and Koichi Iwanaga. The Third International Conference on Human-Environment System，Tokyo.200628.Diurnal changes of morning-type and evening-type subjects in ERP and salivary melatonin concentrations in response to sound stimuli. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. The Third International Conference on Human-Environment System，Tokyo.200629.Relationships among Cognitive Function Core Body Temperature and Melatonin Secretion. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. The 8th International Congress of Physiological Anthropology (ICPA’2006). Kamakura Japan.200630.Selective and quantitative extraction of optical signals in near-infrared optical imaging of human brain function. Chie Sato Masahito Nemoto Yoshinobu Iguchi Jinghua Huang Yoko Hoshi. The 5th Meeting of Japan Optical Functional Brain Imaging Society.200631.Diurnal Changes of Human Cognitive Function in Response to Sound Stimuli of Different Frequencies for Evening-Type Subjects. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. Journal of the Human-Environmental System.200532.Effect of time of day on ERP to different frequency of sound stimuli for moderately evening-type subjects. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. Seventh International Congress of Physiological Anthropology，Columbus.200533.Diurnal differences between moderately morning-type and evening-type subjects on ERP to different frequency of sound stimuli. Jinghua Huang Tetsuo Katsuura Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga. The 51th Meeting of Japan Society of Physiological Anthropology.200434.Effect of time of day on ERP to different frequency of sound stimuli. Jinghua Huang Yoshihiro Shmomura Koichi Iwanaga Tetsuo Katsuura. The 50th meeting of Japan Society of Physiological Anthropology.2003